From New York [music] Times, I'm Michael
Barbaro. This is The Daily.
>> [music]
>> On Wednesday afternoon, after a year of
harassing and threatening the chairman
of the most [music] powerful financial
institution in the country,
President Trump finally [music] replaced
him.
Sort of.
Today, Colby Smith on how the president
[music]
ended one standoff at the Federal
Reserve, only to create a new one.
>> [music]
>> It's
>> Thursday, May 14th.
The Ayes are 54, the Nays are 45. The
nomination is confirmed.
>> [music]
>> The president will be immediately
notified of the Senate's action.
The Senate is confirming Kevin Warsh as
the next chair of the Federal Reserve.
The move puts [music] President Trump's
pick in charge of interest rate policy
during a time of high prices and
economic uncertainty.
Colby, we find ourselves in a very
curious place.
Just a few hours ago, the US Senate
confirmed President Trump's choice to
replace Jerome Powell as chairman of the
Federal Reserve. Powell, whom the
president has hated with the heat of a
thousand suns.
And yet, Powell is refusing to entirely
cede the stage. Even though he's no
longer going to be chairman of the Fed,
he's made this very surprising decision
to stay on at the Fed, not retire. And
it's created this totally unusual
scenario. Old and new Fed chairs trying
to somehow coexist inside the Central
Bank in what is quite likely going to be
a very messy situation. So, talk us
through the events that got us
to this moment over the past few weeks.
So, it's a really complicated moment for
the Federal Reserve. Jerome Powell's
decision to stay on at the Fed breaks
with really decades of tradition. The
last time this happened was in the late
1940s, and that was at the request of
the president at the time, Harry Truman.
So, this is obviously a very different
situation. As you said, Trump and
Powell, they've been at loggerheads for
most of Trump's second term, and I can't
remember a time in history in which a
Fed chair stayed on past the end of his
tenure when the president explicitly
didn't want him to. Mhm.
>> [music]
>> We have
a fool at the Federal Reserve.
He's an absolute fool.
And this whole decision stemmed from
[music] an extraordinary pressure
campaign launched by President Trump
against Powell and the Fed for Powell's
refusal to lower interest rates. Now we
have a man that just refuses to lower
the Fed rate. Just refuses to do it.
And uh he he's not a smart person.
And uh he's something wrong with him.
He's just stupid. [music]
I I'd be honest, I'd love to fire his
ass. He should be fired. Guy's grossly
incompetent.
And it really took on a whole life of
its own. President Trump's
long-simmering war against Jay Powell,
the Federal Reserve chair, it has
officially gone nuclear. One of
President Trump's top targets, the
chairman [music] of the Federal Reserve,
is now under criminal investigation. The
investigation involves Powell's
testimony into the cost of building
renovations at the Fed. And it
culminated in this criminal
investigation launched by the Justice
Department against Powell and the Fed
over these renovations of its
headquarters in Washington. And this in
a lot of ways just ended up backfiring
spectacularly [music]
against Trump. It looks fishy.
Why do you say that?
>> look great.
If you wanted to design a system to
cause interest rates to go up and not
down, you would have the Federal Reserve
of the United States and the executive
branch of the United States get into a
pissing contest. I hope they have a
smoking gun or something because I don't
think you trifle with the uh Federal
Reserve with the central bank. Because
the existence of this investigation
ended up becoming a big impediment to
Trump getting exactly what he's wanted
for a long time, which is Powell to
leave and for him to be able to put in a
new person as Fed chair. Right. And
Trump has, by this point, picked this
person he wants to be his new Fed chair,
Kevin Warsh, whom Trump nominated as
this investigation drama is playing out.
Exactly. [music]
Until the investigation is resolved, I
cannot and I will not vote to support
anyone on the Federal Reserve in my
remaining tenure in the US Senate. And
what happened here is that Thom Tillis,
[music]
a retiring Republican senator from North
Carolina, said he would not support any
of Trump's Fed nominees until the legal
threats into Powell had ended.
>> Mhm. The problem that I have here is
that we had some US attorney with a
dream or assistant US attorney thinking
it would be cute to bring Chair [music]
Powell under an investigation just a few
months before the position was going to
be open. And this was a really potent
[music] tool because Tillis had a
pivotal vote on the Senate Banking
Committee, which oversees the
confirmation process for Fed nominee.
>> He literally [music] could block Trump's
pick to replace Powell. Exactly. Just
given the slim majority that Republicans
have, his opposition to allowing the
confirmation process to proceed created
this blockade of sorts that put on pause
something that Trump had really really
wanted. Until the matter is solved, I'm
a no.
>> [music]
>> And I think what's important to remember
about this is that the grounds of the
investigation were so spurious. It was
about this renovations project that had
gone millions of dollars over budget,
but cost overruns, they're not a crime.
And I think it was clear from the very
get-go that this investigation was
really politically charged.
>> This unprecedented action should be seen
in the broader context of the
administration's threats and ongoing
pressure. Powell says as much in this
extraordinary statement shortly after
the investigation went public. We talked
about it the last time I was on the
show.
>> Right. This is about whether the Fed
will be able to continue to set interest
rates based on evidence and economic
conditions or whether instead monetary
policy will be directed by political
pressure or intimidation. And a short
while later, we had a federal judge also
coming out strongly against the
investigation. This judge basically said
in no uncertain terms that this was
about pressuring and harassing Powell so
the president could install someone
who's more amenable to his demands. So,
you had all of this opposition mounting
to this investigation, and it was quite
clear it was on really shaky legal
footing. So, the question all along was
when would Trump blink? How long would
they continue to pursue an investigation
that really had no future, especially
when it was jeopardizing this thing that
Trump had long wanted?
>> Right, suddenly Trump was being asked to
choose
between revenge against the Fed chair he
hates
and replacing
that Fed chair he hates. And
in this period you're describing,
he was kind of choosing revenge over
replacement. Absolutely. And there was a
time element here. Powell's term was up
May 15th, and they were running out of
time to get Trump's nominee, Kevin
Warsh, into that role.
So, we're all waiting to figure out how
they're going to proceed here, and we
keep getting signs that they're nowhere
close to dropping this investigation.
The chairman says, "No, no, you're
attacking the independence of the
Federal Reserve. That's not what we're
doing. We're doing our job." US Attorney
for the District of Columbia, Jessie
Liu, who launched this investigation,
continues to say she's pursuing this
investigation. Federal prosecutors made
an unannounced visit to the Federal
Reserve yesterday as part of their
investigation into Fed chair Jerome
Powell. What's the latest on that?
>> Yeah, this was highly unusual. We're
Members of her team at one point went to
the Fed itself to try to visit the
active construction site and poke around
a little bit. There was just a lot of
mixed messages at this point, and it
started to impact, I think, how Powell
began to speak about what he was going
to do at the Fed. I have no intention of
leaving the board until the
investigation is well and truly over
with transparency and finality.
On the question of whether I will then
continue to serve as a governor after my
term ends and after the investigation is
over, I have not made that decision yet.
Mhm. So, Powell has one tool of leverage
left in his arsenal. His term as chair
ends May 15th, but technically he can
stay on as a member of the Fed's Board
of Governors. This is a seven-person
board who makes really important
decisions about interest rates and
policy and internal staffing decisions
at the Fed. So, it's an important
position. And Powell had been really
vague about what he planned to do. The
Justice Department is calling off one of
its most controversial investigations.
>> Jeanine Pirro says she's dropping her
investigation
looking at J. Powell in the Federal
Reserve construction. And finally on
April 24th, so just a couple weeks
before the end of Powell's term, Pirro
finally caves and announces that she's
dropping the case.
>> Mhm. US Attorney Jeanine Pirro added, "I
will not hesitate to restart a criminal
investigation should the facts warrant
doing so." You just heard
>> She keeps open the option of starting it
again at any point, but she essentially
says that she's wrapping up her
investigation. She kind of hands off the
job to the Inspector General at the Fed.
I am prepared to move on with the
confirmation of Mr. Warsh. I think he's
going to be a great Fed chair. And that
outcome was sufficient for Tillis to end
his blockade against Trump's Fed nominee
Kevin Warsh, but it wasn't enough for
Powell.
>> [music]
>> I welcomed the announcement last Friday
by the US Attorney for the District of
Columbia that she had closed the
criminal investigation.
She also noted, however, that she would
not hesitate to restart the
investigation. At the end of April, in
his last press conference as chair,
Powell makes clear he is not convinced
whatsoever that the administration's
investigation is over. My decisions on
these matters will continue to be guided
entirely by what I believe is in the
best interest of the institution and the
people we serve. After my term as chair
ends on May 15, I will [music] continue
to serve as a governor for a period of
time
to be determined. And because of that,
he is using his one tool of leverage.
He's going to stay on at the Fed. You
know, I'm literally staying because of
the actions that have been taken. I I
had long planned to be retiring.
>> [music]
>> Uh and
you know, the things that have happened
in the really in the last 3 months have
I think left me no choice but to stay
until I see them through at least that
long. So, [music] that threshold for
Powell in terms of the investigation
being well and truly over with
transparency and finality, that's
definitely not reached. But, the bigger
reason he says is that Trump's [music]
ongoing attacks on the institution have
imperiled the Fed in a pivotal way. such
actions. I worry that these attacks are
battering the institution and putting at
risk the thing that really matters to
the public, which is the ability to
conduct monetary policy without taking
into consideration political factors.
It is so important for our economy, for
the people that we serve, that they can
depend [music]
over time on a central bank that
operates that way, free of political
influence. It has risked the Fed
becoming more politicized, [music] and
it has risked the US economy being
undermined. For him, it's not just about
him and his future and the
investigation, [music]
it's about the future of the central
bank and its ability to operate free of
political meddling.
And how does staying on the Fed's Board
of Governors, but not leading it, in
Powell's mind,
ensure that the Fed
remains independent and can withstand
these attacks from the president? So, at
the most basic level, by staying on,
Powell blocks Trump's ability to
nominate another person to the Fed's
Board of Governors. Now, this is
important because the more people on the
Board of Governors who are willing to do
the president's bidding, the more likely
it is that the institution becomes an
extension of the administration. Now,
Trump, of course, had the ability to
name a new Fed chair in replacing
Powell, but with Powell staying on,
Trump would no longer be able to add
another governor. And so, what it
effectively did was reduce Trump's
influence over the board. And it's
really important to underscore that the
Board of Governors is really powerful.
These policy makers are absolutely
pivotal in the direction of interest
rates, in the direction of bank
regulatory policy, in staffing changes
inside the Fed, and also as it relates
to the regional bank presidents that sit
across the country. So, they play a
really crucial role in shaping how the
Fed operates. So, having a majority of
supporters on the board can really sway
the institution one way or the other.
Because Powell linked his decision to
stay on the board to
the investigation into the Fed,
I guess I have to ask,
does a remaining in any way protect him
from that investigation being reopened
legally? So, from a legal standpoint,
staying on doesn't really change much in
terms of the investigation and his
ability to um be the subject of any kind
of criminal probe. On the margins, he is
conferred benefits and protection by
being a sitting governor. A president
can't just remove him at will. So, that
stands in his favor. But, what staying
on really shows is that this is bigger
than the investigation itself. He really
believes this is about the institution,
and the stakes are simply too high for
him to leave.
>> Mhm. So, given that, the reality that
sticking around on the board doesn't
really offer much of a legal shield for
Powell, it seems we're pretty much
taking him at his word here that he
wants to stay on to more broadly protect
the Fed
from Trump's encroachments and keep the
Fed looking like basically Jerome
Powell's version of the Fed. Right.
And I think there's going to be this
tension right from the get-go where you
basically have Powell stepping down as
chair, moving his offices inside the
Fed's building a couple offices down
from his old one. This new guy coming
in, Kevin Warsh, and people really don't
know how it's going to work. Powell has
said he's going to keep a low profile as
a governor, but people are going to pay
attention to him when he speaks up
either inside the room ahead of rate
decisions or if he ever makes a speech
publicly. It has all the makings of an
incredibly awkward environment where I
think people are not really going to
understand who is in charge at this
crucial moment for the central bank.
And I think what adds to the awkwardness
here is that the person replacing
Powell, Kevin Warsh, is a huge critic of
him and everything he's done in his
tenure as chair. And he has gone so far
as to call for regime change. And the
question on everyone's minds is how far
is he going to push it?
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back.
So Colby, tell us about Kevin Warsh,
this incoming Fed chair, and the basis
for his critique of Powell and Powell's
Fed. So this is a bit of a homecoming
for Warsh. He served as a governor at
the Fed between 2006 and 2011 and this
overlapped with the height of the global
financial crisis and he was pivotal in
crafting the Fed's response to that
moment. And that's where really the
source of his criticism against the
Central Bank started to brew.
>> During this period?
>> During this period. He ended up leaving
in 2011 over a disagreement about how
interventionist the Fed had become in
financial markets and in the global
economy because of its response to the
financial crisis. What specifically was
his criticism of the Fed's intervention
starting after the financial crisis if
he himself was highly involved in it?
So, if you think back to the 2008
crisis, banks weren't lending, you had
bank failures, it was a kind of a full
stop on the economy. So, the Fed, they
did two things. First, they drove
interest rates down to zero, but that
wasn't enough to stabilize things. So,
they did something else highly unusual
at the time. They started buying up huge
quantities of government bonds and
mortgage-backed securities. That
increased their portfolio of holdings,
otherwise known as the balance sheet.
And Warsh, he was on board for this
initial response, but from his
perspective, the Fed eventually took it
too far.
And I think it's important to look at
the numbers here because before the 2008
financial crisis, the Fed's balance
sheet was less than a trillion, and by
the end of the crisis, it was over 4
trillion. Wow, so
4x.
>> Exactly. And it got even bigger. And
this is the crux of his criticism about
the Fed as it stands today. After the
pandemic, the balance sheet peaked at
close to 9 trillion dollars. It's now
somewhere around 6 and 1/2 trillion. And
for Warsh, the balance sheet, it's
really emblematic of everything that has
gone wrong at the Central Bank since he
left it.
The Fed balance sheet has played a
particularly, I think, unhelpful role in
In his recent Senate confirmation
hearing, he says that there are several
reasons why this tool is problematic.
First and foremost, he makes the case
that expanding the balance sheet is
actually bad for the US economy. He says
it exacerbates inequality. The Fed has
an interest rate tool and a balance
sheet tool. My view is the interest rate
tool gets in the cracks. It's fairer.
The balance sheet tool
disproportionately helps those with
financial assets. The interest rate tool
hits the entire economy. And he also
warns that it risks making inflation
worse. Had the balance sheet not been
brought from the $800 billion level when
I showed up at the Fed in 2006 to an
order of magnitude higher,
I think interest rates could be lower,
inflation could be better, and the
economy could be stronger. But his
critique, it goes beyond economics. The
big balance sheet has become an ordinary
recurring force, and I think it's been
quite unhelpful, and it's part of the
reason why the Fed is in the business of
politics. He also thinks that when the
Fed does this kind of stimulus, it
creeps outside of its congressional
mandate. And he says that when the Fed
does this, it potentially threatens the
Fed's credibility and its independence.
We're going to have to find our way in
which we can take the balance sheet and
make it smaller because a large balance
sheet where the Fed owns more uh
outstanding debt than many parts of
[music] the financial markets, that's
fiscal policy in disguise. That needs to
get out of the fiscal business, focus on
the monetary business so the Fed can
deliver on the remit you gave us.
>> [music]
>> So when Warsh talks about regime change,
a big part of what he means by that is
redefining how the Fed should operate in
the economy and the global financial
system.
What he's trying to do here is to
minimize, I think, how interventionist
the Fed really is in a lot of ways. And
for him, that would not only reduce the
degree of economic harm caused by the
central bank, but it would also rein in
this mission creep that he sees as a
threat to the Fed's institutional
credibility. Mhm.
Simple question, is Warsh right? And let
me get even more specific. Is he right
about inflation we are living through
still a rather inflationary era in
American financial life? So,
is he correct that the Fed played a role
in creating that? So, I think it's a
complicated answer, unfortunately,
because there were a lot of reasons to
explain the high inflation environment
that we're in today. So, for Warsh, he
has in hand a very clear example of how
the Fed's overreach has created
inflation and caused distortion in
financial markets. And he points to the
pandemic in 2020. The Fed steps in
forcefully. It lowers rates to zero. It
starts buying unlimited government
bonds. And the response eclipsed
anything that we saw during the 2008
global financial crisis.
>> Mhm.
And for Warsh,
the problem was is that the Fed kind of
continued this extraordinary support for
too long. And even some officials at the
Fed have kind of come around to this
idea that they could have stopped buying
bonds earlier.
And I think that is because this episode
created the worst inflation that we had
seen in four decades. And that all
happened under Powell's watch. For
supporters of Powell,
there are other things that you can
point to to explain this inflation
situation.
>> Such as, because we covered it,
President Biden's large stimulus who
wrote checks to Americans during the
pandemic. Exactly. There was an
exorbitant amount of support provided to
Americans at a time, and this is perhaps
most important, that supply chains were
shuttered. So, you had all of this
demand with constrained supply, and this
mismatch created higher prices. Higher
prices. And so, this became the kind of
opening, I think, for critics against
Powell and the Fed to say that he had
led the institution astray. And what
about Warsh's kind of secondary critique
here, which is that through these huge
interventions,
Powell's Fed has overstepped its role in
a way that's just bad for everybody. Is
that view widely held? So, it's an
argument that has definitely gained
traction. We've heard something similar
from Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent,
specifically as it relates to the
balance sheet and some of the
interventions into financial markets
that the Fed did back in 2020.
But, I'm not really sure it carries much
weight inside the Central Bank. They
argue that this balance sheet tool was
absolutely crucial to getting the
financial system functioning again and
ensuring the economic recovery in the
aftermath of the crisis.
So, that's Warsh's broad critique of
Powell's Fed. It obviously appeals, as
you said, to Trump. But, how does
Warsh's view of the Fed
line up with Trump's determination
to cut interest rates? There's an
assumption out there that Trump would
never replace Powell with anyone who
wasn't going to cut the interest rate
because that's in such a singular way
what Trump wanted and Powell refused to
deliver. So, what is Warsh saying about
that? So, what's really interesting
about Warsh is that his whole history as
someone who's been highly skeptical of
lower rates.
>> Mhm. And he's someone who was kind of
branded as this inflation hawk. Someone
who was incredibly worried about price
pressures in the economy and always
wanted the Fed to keep in mind the risks
of higher inflation. And what that
typically resulted in is him pushing
back on the need for the Fed to cut
interest rates more than anything else.
And that's something that he he been
consistent on basically up until the
point that he started to be considered
to become Powell's replacement.
>> Mhm. And then what happened?
>> And then we start to see a shift in tone
from him. He comes up with all these
different reasons why interest rates
should be lower. And this marked a real
flip-flop um given his past stance. And
it started to raise these questions
among people who watch the Fed closely
about what was behind this seeming
flip-flop from Warsh. People started to
ask whether this was politically
motivated, and perhaps this was why
Trump chose him to be his nominee to
replace Powell. Right.
How much does Powell remaining on the
Board of Governors,
to bring us back to the first part of
our conversation,
how much harder is that going to make it
for Warsh to cut interest rates if he
wants to in fact do that in the coming
months or years?
I think actually it's not necessarily so
much about Powell staying here, but the
economic environment completely shifting
against the need for cuts in the last
couple of months. So, Powell's presence
in and of itself certainly does not help
because he is someone who does not see
an urgent need for the Fed to lower
interest rates. And this is someone who
obviously is respected across the
committee, so his views on that matter.
But, cutting rates at this time would be
economically disastrous according to
most officials at the Fed. They see
inflation risks rising because of this
war. We have no idea when that's going
to end. Oil prices are higher, and this
is not an environment where lower
interest rates are going to help
whatsoever. If anything, it's going to
make things worse. And so, this puts
Warsh in an incredibly uncomfortable
position. His first meeting as chair is
going to be in June, and no one expects
him to be able to push through interest
rate cuts at that moment. People don't
even actually know if he is going to
pursue that because doing so would
undermine his credibility so directly.
Mhm. Because the economic environment
does not call for cuts, him supporting
that would look like he was the
president's policy lapdog.
>> Exactly. And he spent his entire
confirmation hearing basically trying to
disabuse lawmakers of the notion that he
was going to operate as Trump's sock
puppet. This is this big credibility
issue that's going to loom large over
him. And he's going to be faced with
this choice come that first meeting.
Does he
establish his own credibility and risk
angering the president or does he do
what the president wants him to do and
then internally his own credibility is
undermined? Fascinating.
And
what do we suspect he will do? I think
Warsh has made clear that he is someone
who does not like inflation. That I just
don't think that we're going to see him
depart from that so dramatically. No Fed
chair wants to be remembered as
a Fed chair who led the economy down a
bad path. And that's going to I think
going to be the thing that continues to
kind of moderate how he behaves and what
he ends up pursuing in terms of rates.
>> Well, what you're outlining is that
Kevin Warsh, despite all his promises of
delivering change at the Fed,
is going to find himself taking a
Powell-like position on interest rates,
resisting the president's demands to cut
them, and becoming Powell-like in
the fact that the president's going to
become furious with him that he's not
getting the job done. Yes, exactly. I
think that the big question for everyone
is just how much runway is Trump going
to give his Fed chair pick. Is he going
to give him a couple of months to settle
in and establish his own credibility and
give him the okay to not necessarily
vote for lower interest rates or is he
going to come right out of the gate and
attack him for not being able to deliver
the thing that he has kind of made clear
was the precondition for whoever he was
going to give the job to. And I think
this is really going to come to a head
as early as mid-June, which is the first
meeting that Warsh is going to preside
over as chair. And we could be in a
situation where Warsh is voting
alongside Powell to hold rates steady,
and that's not going to look like the
regime change that he talked about. And
that would start to perhaps change
Powell's calculation.
>> [clears throat]
>> No, about staying on the board because
suddenly he will have the knowledge that
the person replacing him is not there to
blow up the Fed and remove its
independence.
Does that make him perhaps over time
question staying on the board? So, I
think his decision is just bigger than
that. This is really fundamentally going
to come down to his perception of the
threat posed by President Trump on the
institution. This is ultimately going to
be about whether or not Trump ceases his
attacks against the central bank and
allows it to do its job, or if he
continues them. And if Trump decides to
turn on Warsh
or continues his attacks on other
officials,
all that's going to do is
>> is reaffirm. Exactly, and it's going to
keep motivating Powell to stay on. And
at this point, he's made the hard
decision already to stay. Well, let me
end with a question about Powell and his
decision to stay on the board. Because
it from what you're saying, even if
Warsh ends up being an ideological
fiscal ally, he's going to stay on
anyway.
And he's going to keep arguing the
reason he's staying is to protect the
Fed from politics. But by staying
in a way that his predecessors
for the last
many decades have not,
does he risk himself politicizing
the Fed? Because staying on to fight the
president is ultimately, whether you
agree with it or not, a political
decision. It might be a principled
decision, but ultimately a political
one. Is he making the Fed more political
by doing this? I think that's exactly
the criticism that Powell is opening
himself up to, and I think he's aware of
it. I mean, he was pressed at his final
news conference about exactly this
issue. By remaining on the board, you're
actually taking a political act in
denying
uh President Trump the majority of the
board, which as president he would have
if you left.
I I don't see that at all. I As I
mentioned
>> pushed back on that characterization.
I don't see how this will interfere. I'm
not My intention is not to interfere.
You know, I was a governor for almost 6
years. And the tradition is at the Fed
that governors uh who understand how
difficult the role of chair is, and as a
as a soon-to-be former chair, I do
understand how hard it is to get
consensus with 19
>> But the the fact that the
administration's actions are influencing
his decision to stay or go really has
kind of changed the nature of what
previously was a very kind of mundane
personnel process that occurred at the
Fed.
>> you try to uh
collaborate with the chair and try to
support the chair when you can. When you
can't, you can't. And I think that's the
attitude that people generally take, and
that's the attitude that I'll take. Now
suddenly, that is going to cast on to
other policymakers at the Fed who are
thinking about leaving or staying. If
you leave, does that mean that you are
creating an opening for the president to
put someone else in there that's going
to lead the institution in the wrong
direction?
>> a little bit like the Supreme Court.
>> Exactly. And And I think that the fact
that, you know, people are gaming all of
these things out just shows the way in
which that politics has infiltrated the
central bank because of these attacks
from the president.
>> Right. There really isn't any going back
from this. Exactly.
>> [music]
>> It'll be interesting to see how Warsh
kind of deals with that pushback if he
eventually gets it from the president
and [music] ultimately like how much of
a bullwark he himself is going to be in
protecting [music] his own independence
to do his job.
Kobie, thank you very much. Thanks so
much for having me.
We'll be right back.
>> [music]
>> Here's what else you need to nerd out.
On Wednesday, the US Senate blocked
Democrats' seventh attempt to halt the
war in Iran and require congressional
approval for it to continue.
>> [music]
>> But, a Republican defection signaled the
party's growing impatience with
President Trump over the war.
For the first time, Republican Senator
Lisa Murkowski [music] of Alaska joined
Republicans Susan Collins of Maine and
Rand Paul of Kentucky in voting with
Democrats.
>> [music]
>> In the end, a Democratic Senator, John
Fetterman of Pennsylvania, crossed party
lines to cast the decisive vote to
[music] block the measure.
And,
South Carolina's [music] Supreme Court
has overturned the murder convictions
against Alex Murdaugh, a lawyer found
guilty of murdering his wife and one of
his sons in a 2023 trial that [music]
captivated the country.
The court said that interference by a
court clerk [music] involved in the
murder trial meant that Murdoch's
conviction must be voided and a new
[music] trial be held.
Jurors in the original trial said the
clerk made prejudicial comments to them
about [music] Murdoch.
Despite the ruling, Murdoch will remain
in prison because he pleaded [music]
guilty to different crimes, including
stealing money from his law firm and his
clients.
Today's [music] episode was produced by
Mary Wilson, Lexie Diao, and Ricky
N'Guessan.
It was edited by Mark George with help
[music] from Lisa Chow and contains
music by Mary Lozano, Rowan Nemi,
Pat McCusker, and Dan Powell.
Our theme music [music] is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Alyssa
Moxley.
>> [music]
>> That's it for The Daily. I'm Michael
Barbaro.
See you tomorrow.
>> [music]